# Mania

**Source** [_Horror Adventures pg. 184_](http://paizo.com/products/btpy9n5a?Pathfinder-Roleplaying-Game-Horror-Adventures), [_GameMastery Guide pg. 250_](http://paizo.com/pathfinderRPG/v5748btpy8ffn)  
**Type** lesser madness (compulsion); **Save** DC 14  
**Onset** 1 day  
**Effect** Each round when an afflicted character is within 30 feet and can see the object of her mania, she must succeed at a Will saving throw or rush to interact with that object. If the afflicted character succeeds at the saving throw by 5 or more, she can keep away from the object of the mania or resist the manic activity for 1 minute before having to attempt the saving throw again. After failing a saving throw and fully performing the mania’s compulsion, the afflicted character need not attempt another saving throw for 1 minute, as she has temporarily satisfied her obsession.  
**Dormancy Effect** Each round when an afflicted character is within 30 feet and can see the object of her mania, she must attempt a Will saving throw. If she fails, she can choose to either interact with the object of her mania (as above) or become fascinated by the object while abstaining from the activity for 1 round. If the afflicted character succeeds at this saving throw by 5 or more, she can’t be fascinated by that particular stimulus for 24 hours before having to attempt the saving throw again (for instance, if a character obsessed with swords succeeded at her save against a particular sword by 5 or more, she wouldn’t be fascinated by that sword for 24 hours, but she might be fascinated by other swords).  

### Description

A mania is an irrational and unhealthy obsession with an object or activity. Nearly any object or activity can become the object of a mania, but often the object is either dangerous (like fire or deadly magic) or somewhat taboo (like the need to commit small thefts or engage in risky sexual behavior). The GM determines the exact nature of the mania, but it should have some connection to the madness’s impetus and be respectful to the narrative sensibilities and maturity of the player and the group.